in 1985 marty mcfly is a typical
teenager living in hill valley
california at home marty's cowardly
father george is bullied by his
supervisor
biff tannen his mother lorraine is an
overweight depressed alcoholic
and his older siblings are professional
and social failures
an aspiring musician marty's band is
rejected for a music contest
he confides in his girlfriend jennifer
parker about fears of becoming like his
parents
despite his ambitions that night marty
meets his eccentric scientist friend
emmett doc brown in the twin pines mall
parking lot dock unveils a time machine
built from a modified delorean
powered by plutonium he swindled from
libyan terrorists
doc inputs a destination time of
november 5th 1955
the day he first conceived his time
travel invention
the terrorists arrive unexpectedly
opening fire and shooting document marty
flees in the delorean
inadvertently activating time travel
when he reaches 88 miles per hour
142 kilometers per hour
arriving in 1955 marty discovers he has
no plutonium to return
while exploring a burgeoning hill valley
marty encounters his teenage father and
discovers biff has been bullying him
since high school
george falls into the path of an
oncoming car while spying on the teenage
lorraine
and marty is knocked unconscious while
saving him
he wakes to find himself tended to by
lorraine who becomes infatuated with him
marty tracks down a younger doc and
convinces him he is from the future
doc explains the only source available
in 1955 capable of generating the
required 1.21 gigawatts of power for
time travel is a lightning bolt
marty shows dock a flyer from the future
that documents an upcoming lightning
strike at the town's courthouse
marty's siblings begin to fade from a
photo he is carrying with him
he and doc realize marty's actions are
altering the future and jeopardizing
their chances to exist
lorraine was supposed to meet george
instead of marty after the car accident
early attempts to get his parents
acquainted fail and lorraine's
infatuation with marty deepens
lorraine asks marty to the school dance
he plots to feign inappropriate advances
on lorraine
allowing george to intervene and rescue
her
the plan goes awry when biff's gang
interrupts and locks marty in the trunk
of the performing band's car
while biff forces himself onto lorraine
george arrives expecting to find marty
and biff bullies him into submission
after biff hurts lorraine
an enraged george knocks him unconscious
he escorts a grateful lorraine to the
dance
the band frees marty from their car but
the lead guitarist is injured in the
process
marty takes his place and performs while
george and lorraine share their first
kiss
with his future no longer in jeopardy
marty heads to the courthouse to meet
document doc discovers a note from marty
warning him about his future
and destroys it worried about the
consequences
to save doc marty recalibrates the
delorean to return 10 minutes before he
left the future
the lightning strikes sending marty back
to 1985
but the delorean breaks down forcing
marty to run back to the mall
he arrives as doc is being shot while
marty grieves at his side
doc sits up revealing he pieced marty's
note back together and wore a
bulletproof vest
he takes marty home and departs to the
future in the delorean
marty wakes the next morning to discover
his father is now a successful
confident author his mother is fit and
happy his siblings are successful
and biff is a serval valid in george's
employ
as marty reunites with jennifer doc
suddenly reappears in the delorean
insisting they return with him to the
future to save their children from
terrible fates